#summary A list of planned features for delve.  Combination TODO list / notepad.

= Plot =

That would be nice.


= Alignment =

The alignment system will be important, and reminiscent of the D&D system.

== Alignments ==

Two axes: L-N-C and G-N-E.

It would be neat to have an alignment-based quest.  Go kill a god of an opposed alignment?  Take your pick for true neutrals?

== Altars ==

Altars will be aligned, but not god-specific.  Altars have one of 5 alignments: L, C, G, E, N.  An altar is usable if its alignment matches one of the player's alignments.

= Stats =

Str, Dex, Int for sure.

Con? Wis? Maybe

Probably not Cha, although I could import the haggling code from ligers.

Stats will be determined partly by race, and partly by class, deterministically to avoid start scumming.


= Classes =

Lots.

= Races =

Lots more.

= Skills =

It's going to be hard to avoid ripping off Crawl's excellent system.  Maybe I shouldn't.


= Movement =

Three movement speeds: Walking (normal), Running, Sneaking

== Walking ==

The default movement mode.  Normal speed and stealth, no penalties.

== Running ==

Faster movement, at the cost of lower stealth and eventual weariness (dependent on Con?).

== Sneaking ==

Slower movement, but better stealth.  How much better?  20%?  Should probably scale with skill instead of being a flat bonus.


= Monsters =

Monsters will have a "genus" and a "species" attribute.  Genus will be something general like "dragon", "canine", or "orc", and the species will be the specific creature type, like "red dragon", "war dog", or "orc warlock".

= Weapons =

== Damage Types ==

  * Physical (all partially resistable, and reduced by AC)
    * Bludgeoning
    * Piercing
    * Slashing
  * Magical (non-elemental, nonresistable, reduced by spell resistance?)
  * Fire
  * Cold
  * Electricity
  * Acid
  * Negative

Resistances and vulnerabilities are independent (from gear) for characters, probably not for creatures.

== Weapon Skills ==

Weapons will be divided into somewhat sensible categories.

High skill in certain kinds of weapons will provide some bonus abilities while using a weapon of the correct type.  These will be thematic combat enhancements that can be active or passive.

|| *Skill* || *Examples* || *First Special* || *Second Special* ||
|| *Light Blades* || Dagger, rapier, short sword || Parry (block chance depending on relative weapon weight, passive) || Riposte (Chance for free attack on parry, passive) ||
|| *Heavy Blades* || Long sword, greatsword ||  || Disarm (active) ||
|| *Maces* || Club, mace || || Crush (increased critical chance, passive) ||
|| *Staves* || Quarterstaff, longstaff || St. George Guard (EV increase, passive) || Trip (active) ||
|| *Polearms* || Spear, glaive, et al ||  || ||
|| *Bows* || Short bow, long bow, great bow || Long shot (range increase, passive) || Fast shot (decreased energy cost, passive) ||
|| *Crossbows* || Hand crossbow, light crossbow, heavy crossbow || Quick draw (decreased energy cost, passive) || Pierce armor (reduce effective AC, passive) ||
|| *Slings* || Sling || || ||
|| *Thrown* || Dart, rock, javelin || || ||
|| *Unarmed* || Unarmed || Stunning attack (passive) || Roundhouse Kick (attack all adjacent, high energy cost, active) ||



= Items =

The usual types, with the usual symbols:

) -- weapon

( -- Ammo?

][ -- Armor

=" -- Ring/amulet

% -- Corpse/food

? -- scroll

:+ -- book



== Materials ==

It would be neat to implement different materials with different properties, like hardness and modified damage to some creatures.

  * metal, for armor and weapons
    * iron/steel
    * mithril?/something more creative
    * cold iron?
    * silver
  * meat (or something less gross), for corpses
  * leather, for armor and some weapons
  * paper, for books and scrolls
  * glass, for potions and some items
  * wood, for some weapons and shields?












